README.md, before:

# Pokemon Fun

![Pokemon Fun - Game opening page](/documentation/images/game-opening-page.png)


<p align="center">
| <a href="https://https://dee-des.github.io/love-gaming/" target="_blank">Live Project</a> |
</p>

## Introduction 

Pokemon Fun is my javascript portfolio project developed as part of the Code Institute goStack Bootcamp, consisting of learning outcomes to utilise HTML5, CSS3 & javascript to fulfil the necessary requirements for the brief provided to call and display data from an API.

The live project can found here: <a href="https://https://dee-des.github.io/love-gaming/" target="_blank">Pokemon Fun</a>

<h2 align="center" id="TOC">Table of Contents</h2>

* [Pokemon Fun](#pokemon-fun)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Table of Contents](#TOC)
  - [Project Ouline](#project-outline)
* [Project Planning](#project-planning)
    - [UX Design](#ux-design)
      - [User Stories](#user-stories)
      - [Colors](#colors)
      - [Fonts](#fonts)
      - [Imagery](#imagery)
      - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
* [Features](#features)
  - [General Features](#general-features)
   
    - [Links and Buttons](#links-and-buttons)
  - [Resnposive Design](#responsive-design)
* [Built With](#built-with)
  - [Technology and Languages](#technologies-and-languages)
  - [Libraries and Frameworks](#libraries-and-frameworks)
  - [Tools & Programs](#tools-and-programs)
* [Development](#deployment)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Credits](#credits)
  - [Code](#code)
  - [Content Research](#content-research)
  - [Media](#media)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


<p align="right"><a href="#pokemon-fun">Back To Top</a></p>

## Project Outline

Astronauts for Autism is a fictional organisation dedicated to the support of autistic children and their families, with a primary focus on education and learning during weekly guided sessions. The page developed as part of this project documents the organisation's safeguarding policies and practices whilst offering information, support and contact options for children and parents alike.

The final deliverable as well as fulfilling the content requirements is responsive to modern device standards, adheres to accessibility requirements and is aesthetically pleasing with a focus on the needs and well-being of in the intended end-user.

### Key Objectives

- A positive and appropriate user experience for autistic children and families utilising effective navigation and layout
- Clear and concise presentation of content with easy to navigate options for additional information 
- Responsive design that adheres to all necessary standards and accessibility requirements
- Effective use of color and imagery ensuring consideration for the well-being of the end user
- Inclusion of user-initiated actions providing immediate feedback

## UX Design

## User Stories 

As a parent, I want to know the safeguarding measures in place so I can feel confident knowing my child will be safe during their guided sessions.

As a parent, I want to easily find additional resources to support my child knowing these will be similar to what they have already learned within the sessions to prevent confusion and frustration. 

As a child, I want to find resources that help me when I am feeling overwhelmed. 

As a child, I want to be able to talk to someone when I am scared and need help.

As a staff member, I want to be able to reassure children and parents that we provide a safe environment. 

As a staff member, I want to be able to provide an easy point of access to resources to supplement our sessions.

As a staff member, I want to provide an easy and secure method of communication, which may also include anonymity to protect those that feel unsafe. 

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Colors

Color selection is a key component to any design process, however with the nature of the project this consideration is even greater due to the needs of the end user and the potential for negatively impacting their well-being. 

The artwork and color selection thus played a integral part in the design of this project as they were essential in creating a welcoming and appropriate page for the end user and their specific needs. After much research and inspiration, combining general color theory, autistic specific color theory, my own personal experience of working with autistic children and adults, as well as feedback, I was able to determine an appropriate color scheme that is aesthetically pleasing whilst being both calming and engaging. 

To ensure compliance to standards, the [Colour Contrast Checker](https://colourcontrast.cc/) (also available as extension on [Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/colour-contrast-checker/nmmjeclfkgjdomacpcflgdkgpphpmnfe)) was used.<br>
Both the [WebAIM](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/) and the [Adobe](https://color.adobe.com/create/color-contrast-analyzer) color contrast tools were used to corroborate these results.

### Main Palette

- Deep Sky Blue `#30C5FF` `--blue`
- Pink Lavender `#E4B7E5` `--pink`
- Russian Violet `#381A46` `--purple`
- Spring Green `#21F383` `--green`
- Vanilla `#EEEEA2` `--yellow`

![Color Contrast Checker Results](/documentation/images/color-contrast.gif)

Due to the potential impact of color on autistic persons, additional research and feedback was sought out in order to ensure an appropriate selection was made for this project. Resources consulted can be found in the documentation for additional [research](/documentation/research.md).

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Fonts

As with color, font was a big consideration for ensuring a positive user experience whilst visiting the page.<br>
Two sans-serif fonts were selected for the project, and implemented via [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com) using a direct import code within the style.css file.

[Fredoka](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Fredoka) serves as playful font to be used within logos, headings other page elements of significance.

[Prompt](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Prompt) is to be used as the primary content font ensuring ease of readability and complementing the Fredoka font choice. 

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

### Wireframes

These low-fidelity wireframes have been created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) to define the key feature layout to guide the user experience design. Utilising the [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) framework and available components allows for the construction of a page that feels familiar for ease of navigation whilst also allowing for well structured content and a responsive design. 

**Mobile Wireframe**
![Mobile Wireframe](/documentation/images/wireframe-mobile.webp)

**Tablet Wireframe**
![Tablet Wireframe](/documentation/images/wireframe-tablet.webp)

**Desktop Wireframes**
![Desktop Wireframe 1](/documentation/images/wireframe-desktop-1.webp)
![Desktop Wireframe 2](/documentation/images/wireframe-desktop-2.webp)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Imagery

The image selection became a key influence in the design of the overall project, including naming and branding.

With the requirements of the end user in mind, I sought out images that would fulfil specific criteria;
- Strong thematic link that could be used for branding purposes
- Easily identifiable and appealing to the target audience
- Promote inclusivity
- Have wide variety for appropriate use and relevance across project
- Adhere to color research to maintain user well-being

After seeking out many options including animal images in the same style, I opted to use the Astronaut.

This selection of images fulfilled the criteria set out and offered further inspiration. 
- Astronaut character maintains consistent theme and works well as brand image and name
- Usage of the same character makes the images eaily identifiable and has a fun and playful appeal
- Adopting research that has been applied to comic book superheroes, the use of a mask to hide identity allows the character to adopt universal representation and inclusivity
- The images available using this character was great in number (more than included here) which would allow for relevant inclusion across the project and future implementation
- The images not only adhered to the color requirements, but also informed minor adjustments to the color palette

Before implementing the images into the project I used [Affinity Photo 2](https://affinity.serif.com/en-gb/photo/) to make some minor adjustments. This included removing background colors, removing hearts that felt inappropriate to the end user and converting them to webp formatting to follow current standards.

![Astronaut Images](/documentation/images/images.gif)
- Astronaut Artwork: Designed by [Freepik](http://www.freepik.com/) - Following [Attributation Policy](https://support.freepik.com/s/article/Attribution-How-when-and-where?language=en_US)

During my process of seeking out feedback for UX my decision to include the astronaut character based up on the anonymity and thus inclusivity was confirmed to be a positive one.
![Mobile Wireframe](/documentation/images/space_mumma.png)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Features

### General Features

In order to fulfil the criteria the page consists of various sectioned information each with a variety of links, resources and other elements that contribute to a positive user experience. 

Upon coding the project, receiving feedback and implementing the [Bootstrap Framework](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) the features and design shifted slightly from the original wireframe.

Some key adjustments: 

- The inclusion of buttons within the hero section.<br>
This was done to reflect the clearly definied section of content and provide the user an easy navigation link to the section they would most likely be seeking to interact with. 

- Opting not centre all content within their respective parents.<br>
This decision was made as a result of personal reflection and user feedback to provide a more enjoyable user experience.

#### Navigation and Hero Section

I chose to use a bold and welcoming hero section for the start of the page using the [Bootstrap Jumbotron](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/examples/jumbotron/)

This gives a clear indication of the content as well as imagery that links to the brand and identity of the organisation.

Within this section I have included two buttons that present easy to navigate options for the user to access the relevant section of the page for their needs.

The navigation bar is a Bootstrap component that allows for easy navigation around the site using a familiar method for a positive user experience.

![Navigation & Hero](/documentation/images/nav-and-hero.webp)

#### Bootstrap Cards

I opted to utilise the [Bootstrap Card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/components/card/) feature for the main content of the page as this allowed for a clean organisation of the information. 

Within these sections I have also opted to provide additional resources, links and access to contact modals via buttons for ease.

For balance I also gave the cards a consistent height by adding the `h-100` class.

![Cards](/documentation/images/cards.webp)

#### Policies Section

Mirroring the design of the hero section, I have included a safeguarding policies section for the organisation giving basic details and providing a link to download the policy in full. 

This section not only serves as a vital area for information, but also as a visual divider between the card sections aimed at parents and their families. 

![Policies Section](/documentation/images/policies.webp)

#### Footer

For the footer again I implemented a [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/examples/footers/) component.

Here I have used the bold contrast of the purple to distinguish it apart from the rest of the page allowing it to be easily identifiable across the whole website.

The information provided in this section is considered somewhat standard and provides for a user experience that is easy to understand. 

#### Links and Buttons

Although the page used a variety of colours for buttons to adhere to contrast requirements, each link and button does maintain a level of consistency by utilising the `var(--blue)` as part of it's `:hover` status in some way.

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

### Responsive Design

Utilising the [Bootstrap Framework](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) allowed for an implementation that is responsive without the need for additional CSS or media queries.

Though it took some experimentation and troubleshooting, I have been able to create a page that is fully responsive to modern standards.

This has proven to be a very valuable learning experience in the use of frameworks.
As a result of my debugging within Dev Tools in order to identify and resolve responsiveness issues I believe I have a much greater understanding of how to adpat Bootstrap for use within future projects. 

During testing it was apparent that `display-6` was too large for the navbar brand text so this was removed to increase responsivity.

[Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://therickyroy.github.io/astronauts-for-autism/)<br>
![Am I Responsive](/documentation/images/responsive.webp)<br>
![Mobile](/documentation/images/mobile.webp)<br>
![ipad Mini](/documentation/images/ipad-mini.webp)<br>
![Dektop](/documentation/images/desktop.webp)<br>

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>


## Built With

### Technologies and Languages
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-Language-grey?logo=html5&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23E34F26)
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-Language-grey?logo=css3&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%231572B6)

<a href="https://git-scm.com/" target=_blank_>![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-v2.46.2-grey?logo=git&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23F05032)</a>
<a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Repo_Hosting-white?logo=github&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23181717)</a>
<a href="https://www.gitpod.io/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-IDE-white?logo=gitpod&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23FFAE33)</a>

### Libraries and Frameworks
<a href="https://getbootstrap.com/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-v5.3.3-grey?logo=bootstrap&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%237952B3)</a>
<a href="#" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Font_Awesome-Icons-grey?logo=fontawesome&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23538DD7)</a>
<a href="#" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google_Fonts-Fonts-grey?logo=googlefonts&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%234285F4)</a>


### Tools and Programs
<a href="https://affinity.serif.com/en-gb/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Affinity-Photo%202-grey?logo=affinityphoto&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%234E3188)</a>
<a href="https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Balsamiq-Wireframes-grey?logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23CC0100)</a>
<a href="https://ezgif.com/maker" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ezgif-GIF_Maker-grey?logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23ffffff)</a>


<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Deployment


This [GitHub](https://github.com/) project was created using the [Code Institute Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/ci-full-template) ensuring all necessary dependencies were included when opening within the designated workspace on the [Gitopod IDE](https://www.gitpod.io/).

Setup a repo using this method and template:
1. Login to your GitHub profile.
2. Navigate to the Code Institute Full Template
3. Click the dropdown for 'Use this template' and select "Create a new repository"
4. Generate the necessary name and description for your repo and click 'Create repository from template'
5. Navigate to the new repo and click the green 'Open' button with the Gitpod logo<br>
**IMPORTANT - This button should only be clicked once to generate the new IDE workspace**
6. You can now work on your repository within the Code Institute Gitpod IDE workspace

Once the project repo is created, an early deployment for the live project should performed.<br>
This allows for early and continuous testing using a variety of devices, as well as the Dev Tools available within browsers.

Additional information on the deployment process can be found on the official [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)



<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Testing

Testing and validation os the website was carried out throughout the course of the project.

This included regular debugging and testing using the Dev Tools as ptovided within Chrome Browser.

[HTML Validation](https://validator.w3.org/)<br>
![HTML Validation](/documentation/images/validation-html.webp)

[CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)<br>
![CSS Validation](/documentation/images/validation-css.webp)

[Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview)<br>
![Lighthouse](/documentation/images/lighthouse.webp)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Credits

### Code

Project and primary learning supplied by [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/)<br>
Supplemental learning resources directly used / referenced within the project:

- 
- [Bootstrap Docs](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3)
- [Bootstrap 5 Crash Course Tutorial #9 - Navbars - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7AT1X9Z41sA&t=677s)
- [CSS Variables - The var() function](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp)
- [Gemini](https://gemini.google.com) as a learning tool, no code was directly used
- [Make cards same height side-by-side in Bootstrap 5 - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wolSRMGJ-Ls)
- [Mozilla - mdn web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/)

All additional sources that complemented my learning can be round within additional [research](/documentation/research.md).

### Content Research

Due to the nature of the content within this project I was taken down many avenues of research, in part for specifics regarding the content, but also as part of my own personal development and continued learning on how to apply learning objectives to research methodologies. 

The additional [research](/documentation/research.md) has been compiled into list and can be found within the documentation folder of this repo. 

### Media

- Astronaut Artwork: Designed by [Freepik](http://www.freepik.com/) - Following [Attributation Policy](https://support.freepik.com/s/article/Attribution-How-when-and-where?language=en_US)
- Static badges for README documentation [Shields.io](https://shields.io/badges/static-badge) & [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/)

### Acknowledgements

- Rhiannon and Jessie for providing feedback on the user experience and colors based on their experience working with autistic children and adults.
- Julia for providing feedback on design and navigation and also identifying typos.
- Space_Mumma for providing feedback on design and also inadvertently corroborating my decision to use the astronaut character for this project.

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

Commit message:

Add project outline to README file

README.md, after:

# Pokemon Fun

![Pokemon Fun - Game opening page](/documentation/images/game-opening-page.png)


<p align="center">
| <a href="https://https://dee-des.github.io/love-gaming/" target="_blank">Live Project</a> |
</p>

## Introduction 

Pokemon Fun is my javascript portfolio project developed as part of the Code Institute goStack Bootcamp, consisting of learning outcomes to utilise HTML5, CSS3 & javascript to fulfil the necessary requirements for the brief provided to call and display data from an API.

The live project can found here: <a href="https://https://dee-des.github.io/love-gaming/" target="_blank">Pokemon Fun</a>

<h2 align="center" id="TOC">Table of Contents</h2>

* [Pokemon Fun](#pokemon-fun)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Table of Contents](#TOC)
  - [Project Ouline](#project-outline)
* [Project Planning](#project-planning)
    - [UX Design](#ux-design)
      - [User Stories](#user-stories)
      - [Colors](#colors)
      - [Fonts](#fonts)
      - [Imagery](#imagery)
      - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
* [Features](#features)
  - [General Features](#general-features)
   
    - [Links and Buttons](#links-and-buttons)
  - [Resnposive Design](#responsive-design)
* [Built With](#built-with)
  - [Technology and Languages](#technologies-and-languages)
  - [Libraries and Frameworks](#libraries-and-frameworks)
  - [Tools & Programs](#tools-and-programs)
* [Development](#deployment)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Credits](#credits)
  - [Code](#code)
  - [Content Research](#content-research)
  - [Media](#media)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


<p align="right"><a href="#pokemon-fun">Back To Top</a></p>

## Project Outline

Pokemon Fun is a game which utilises data returned from an API.

### Key Objectives

- A positive and appropriate user experience for autistic children and families utilising effective navigation and layout
- Clear and concise presentation of content with easy to navigate options for additional information 
- Responsive design that adheres to all necessary standards and accessibility requirements
- Effective use of color and imagery ensuring consideration for the well-being of the end user
- Inclusion of user-initiated actions providing immediate feedback

## UX Design

## User Stories 

As a parent, I want to know the safeguarding measures in place so I can feel confident knowing my child will be safe during their guided sessions.

As a parent, I want to easily find additional resources to support my child knowing these will be similar to what they have already learned within the sessions to prevent confusion and frustration. 

As a child, I want to find resources that help me when I am feeling overwhelmed. 

As a child, I want to be able to talk to someone when I am scared and need help.

As a staff member, I want to be able to reassure children and parents that we provide a safe environment. 

As a staff member, I want to be able to provide an easy point of access to resources to supplement our sessions.

As a staff member, I want to provide an easy and secure method of communication, which may also include anonymity to protect those that feel unsafe. 

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Colors

Color selection is a key component to any design process, however with the nature of the project this consideration is even greater due to the needs of the end user and the potential for negatively impacting their well-being. 

The artwork and color selection thus played a integral part in the design of this project as they were essential in creating a welcoming and appropriate page for the end user and their specific needs. After much research and inspiration, combining general color theory, autistic specific color theory, my own personal experience of working with autistic children and adults, as well as feedback, I was able to determine an appropriate color scheme that is aesthetically pleasing whilst being both calming and engaging. 

To ensure compliance to standards, the [Colour Contrast Checker](https://colourcontrast.cc/) (also available as extension on [Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/colour-contrast-checker/nmmjeclfkgjdomacpcflgdkgpphpmnfe)) was used.<br>
Both the [WebAIM](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/) and the [Adobe](https://color.adobe.com/create/color-contrast-analyzer) color contrast tools were used to corroborate these results.

### Main Palette

- Deep Sky Blue `#30C5FF` `--blue`
- Pink Lavender `#E4B7E5` `--pink`
- Russian Violet `#381A46` `--purple`
- Spring Green `#21F383` `--green`
- Vanilla `#EEEEA2` `--yellow`

![Color Contrast Checker Results](/documentation/images/color-contrast.gif)

Due to the potential impact of color on autistic persons, additional research and feedback was sought out in order to ensure an appropriate selection was made for this project. Resources consulted can be found in the documentation for additional [research](/documentation/research.md).

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Fonts

As with color, font was a big consideration for ensuring a positive user experience whilst visiting the page.<br>
Two sans-serif fonts were selected for the project, and implemented via [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com) using a direct import code within the style.css file.

[Fredoka](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Fredoka) serves as playful font to be used within logos, headings other page elements of significance.

[Prompt](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Prompt) is to be used as the primary content font ensuring ease of readability and complementing the Fredoka font choice. 

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

### Wireframes

These low-fidelity wireframes have been created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) to define the key feature layout to guide the user experience design. Utilising the [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) framework and available components allows for the construction of a page that feels familiar for ease of navigation whilst also allowing for well structured content and a responsive design. 

**Mobile Wireframe**
![Mobile Wireframe](/documentation/images/wireframe-mobile.webp)

**Tablet Wireframe**
![Tablet Wireframe](/documentation/images/wireframe-tablet.webp)

**Desktop Wireframes**
![Desktop Wireframe 1](/documentation/images/wireframe-desktop-1.webp)
![Desktop Wireframe 2](/documentation/images/wireframe-desktop-2.webp)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Imagery

The image selection became a key influence in the design of the overall project, including naming and branding.

With the requirements of the end user in mind, I sought out images that would fulfil specific criteria;
- Strong thematic link that could be used for branding purposes
- Easily identifiable and appealing to the target audience
- Promote inclusivity
- Have wide variety for appropriate use and relevance across project
- Adhere to color research to maintain user well-being

After seeking out many options including animal images in the same style, I opted to use the Astronaut.

This selection of images fulfilled the criteria set out and offered further inspiration. 
- Astronaut character maintains consistent theme and works well as brand image and name
- Usage of the same character makes the images eaily identifiable and has a fun and playful appeal
- Adopting research that has been applied to comic book superheroes, the use of a mask to hide identity allows the character to adopt universal representation and inclusivity
- The images available using this character was great in number (more than included here) which would allow for relevant inclusion across the project and future implementation
- The images not only adhered to the color requirements, but also informed minor adjustments to the color palette

Before implementing the images into the project I used [Affinity Photo 2](https://affinity.serif.com/en-gb/photo/) to make some minor adjustments. This included removing background colors, removing hearts that felt inappropriate to the end user and converting them to webp formatting to follow current standards.

![Astronaut Images](/documentation/images/images.gif)
- Astronaut Artwork: Designed by [Freepik](http://www.freepik.com/) - Following [Attributation Policy](https://support.freepik.com/s/article/Attribution-How-when-and-where?language=en_US)

During my process of seeking out feedback for UX my decision to include the astronaut character based up on the anonymity and thus inclusivity was confirmed to be a positive one.
![Mobile Wireframe](/documentation/images/space_mumma.png)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Features

### General Features

In order to fulfil the criteria the page consists of various sectioned information each with a variety of links, resources and other elements that contribute to a positive user experience. 

Upon coding the project, receiving feedback and implementing the [Bootstrap Framework](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) the features and design shifted slightly from the original wireframe.

Some key adjustments: 

- The inclusion of buttons within the hero section.<br>
This was done to reflect the clearly definied section of content and provide the user an easy navigation link to the section they would most likely be seeking to interact with. 

- Opting not centre all content within their respective parents.<br>
This decision was made as a result of personal reflection and user feedback to provide a more enjoyable user experience.

#### Navigation and Hero Section

I chose to use a bold and welcoming hero section for the start of the page using the [Bootstrap Jumbotron](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/examples/jumbotron/)

This gives a clear indication of the content as well as imagery that links to the brand and identity of the organisation.

Within this section I have included two buttons that present easy to navigate options for the user to access the relevant section of the page for their needs.

The navigation bar is a Bootstrap component that allows for easy navigation around the site using a familiar method for a positive user experience.

![Navigation & Hero](/documentation/images/nav-and-hero.webp)

#### Bootstrap Cards

I opted to utilise the [Bootstrap Card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/components/card/) feature for the main content of the page as this allowed for a clean organisation of the information. 

Within these sections I have also opted to provide additional resources, links and access to contact modals via buttons for ease.

For balance I also gave the cards a consistent height by adding the `h-100` class.

![Cards](/documentation/images/cards.webp)

#### Policies Section

Mirroring the design of the hero section, I have included a safeguarding policies section for the organisation giving basic details and providing a link to download the policy in full. 

This section not only serves as a vital area for information, but also as a visual divider between the card sections aimed at parents and their families. 

![Policies Section](/documentation/images/policies.webp)

#### Footer

For the footer again I implemented a [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/examples/footers/) component.

Here I have used the bold contrast of the purple to distinguish it apart from the rest of the page allowing it to be easily identifiable across the whole website.

The information provided in this section is considered somewhat standard and provides for a user experience that is easy to understand. 

#### Links and Buttons

Although the page used a variety of colours for buttons to adhere to contrast requirements, each link and button does maintain a level of consistency by utilising the `var(--blue)` as part of it's `:hover` status in some way.

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

### Responsive Design

Utilising the [Bootstrap Framework](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) allowed for an implementation that is responsive without the need for additional CSS or media queries.

Though it took some experimentation and troubleshooting, I have been able to create a page that is fully responsive to modern standards.

This has proven to be a very valuable learning experience in the use of frameworks.
As a result of my debugging within Dev Tools in order to identify and resolve responsiveness issues I believe I have a much greater understanding of how to adpat Bootstrap for use within future projects. 

During testing it was apparent that `display-6` was too large for the navbar brand text so this was removed to increase responsivity.

[Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://therickyroy.github.io/astronauts-for-autism/)<br>
![Am I Responsive](/documentation/images/responsive.webp)<br>
![Mobile](/documentation/images/mobile.webp)<br>
![ipad Mini](/documentation/images/ipad-mini.webp)<br>
![Dektop](/documentation/images/desktop.webp)<br>

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>


## Built With

### Technologies and Languages
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-Language-grey?logo=html5&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23E34F26)
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-Language-grey?logo=css3&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%231572B6)

<a href="https://git-scm.com/" target=_blank_>![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-v2.46.2-grey?logo=git&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23F05032)</a>
<a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Repo_Hosting-white?logo=github&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23181717)</a>
<a href="https://www.gitpod.io/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-IDE-white?logo=gitpod&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23FFAE33)</a>

### Libraries and Frameworks
<a href="https://getbootstrap.com/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-v5.3.3-grey?logo=bootstrap&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%237952B3)</a>
<a href="#" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Font_Awesome-Icons-grey?logo=fontawesome&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23538DD7)</a>
<a href="#" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google_Fonts-Fonts-grey?logo=googlefonts&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%234285F4)</a>


### Tools and Programs
<a href="https://affinity.serif.com/en-gb/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Affinity-Photo%202-grey?logo=affinityphoto&logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%234E3188)</a>
<a href="https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Balsamiq-Wireframes-grey?logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23CC0100)</a>
<a href="https://ezgif.com/maker" target="_blank">![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ezgif-GIF_Maker-grey?logoColor=%23ffffff&color=%23ffffff)</a>


<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Deployment


This [GitHub](https://github.com/) project was created using the [Code Institute Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/ci-full-template) ensuring all necessary dependencies were included when opening within the designated workspace on the [Gitopod IDE](https://www.gitpod.io/).

Setup a repo using this method and template:
1. Login to your GitHub profile.
2. Navigate to the Code Institute Full Template
3. Click the dropdown for 'Use this template' and select "Create a new repository"
4. Generate the necessary name and description for your repo and click 'Create repository from template'
5. Navigate to the new repo and click the green 'Open' button with the Gitpod logo<br>
**IMPORTANT - This button should only be clicked once to generate the new IDE workspace**
6. You can now work on your repository within the Code Institute Gitpod IDE workspace

Once the project repo is created, an early deployment for the live project should performed.<br>
This allows for early and continuous testing using a variety of devices, as well as the Dev Tools available within browsers.

Additional information on the deployment process can be found on the official [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)



<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Testing

Testing and validation os the website was carried out throughout the course of the project.

This included regular debugging and testing using the Dev Tools as ptovided within Chrome Browser.

[HTML Validation](https://validator.w3.org/)<br>
![HTML Validation](/documentation/images/validation-html.webp)

[CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)<br>
![CSS Validation](/documentation/images/validation-css.webp)

[Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview)<br>
![Lighthouse](/documentation/images/lighthouse.webp)

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>

## Credits

### Code

Project and primary learning supplied by [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/)<br>
Supplemental learning resources directly used / referenced within the project:

- 
- [Bootstrap Docs](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3)
- [Bootstrap 5 Crash Course Tutorial #9 - Navbars - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7AT1X9Z41sA&t=677s)
- [CSS Variables - The var() function](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp)
- [Gemini](https://gemini.google.com) as a learning tool, no code was directly used
- [Make cards same height side-by-side in Bootstrap 5 - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wolSRMGJ-Ls)
- [Mozilla - mdn web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/)

All additional sources that complemented my learning can be round within additional [research](/documentation/research.md).

### Content Research

Due to the nature of the content within this project I was taken down many avenues of research, in part for specifics regarding the content, but also as part of my own personal development and continued learning on how to apply learning objectives to research methodologies. 

The additional [research](/documentation/research.md) has been compiled into list and can be found within the documentation folder of this repo. 

### Media

- Astronaut Artwork: Designed by [Freepik](http://www.freepik.com/) - Following [Attributation Policy](https://support.freepik.com/s/article/Attribution-How-when-and-where?language=en_US)
- Static badges for README documentation [Shields.io](https://shields.io/badges/static-badge) & [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/)

### Acknowledgements

- Rhiannon and Jessie for providing feedback on the user experience and colors based on their experience working with autistic children and adults.
- Julia for providing feedback on design and navigation and also identifying typos.
- Space_Mumma for providing feedback on design and also inadvertently corroborating my decision to use the astronaut character for this project.

<hr>
<p align="right"><a href="#astronauts-for-autism">Back To Top</a></p>
